Boundary Docs (#2900)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/boundary/v1.0.x/content/docs/overview/vpn.mdx

## How Boundary differs from a VPN

While Boundary can establish remote connections to services within an organization's perimeter, Boundary is **not** a VPN.
Instead, Boundary proposes an improvement to the current remote access model, where remote access is granted granularly and established to specific permitted services, but **not** the entire network.
Boundary uses a non-repudiable user identity that is established by your integrated Identity Provider (IdP) of choice, as opposed to relying on network layer concepts such as IP address for access management.

| Access model | What it provides |
|---|---|
| Traditional VPN | Network access — once connected, users can reach the whole network segment |
| Boundary | Delegated access to specific services within the network |

### Can Boundary replace a VPN?

For many organizations, Boundary's granular network access will be a security improvement from traditional data center VPN solutions that lack granular controls.

### Can Boundary work with a VPN?

Boundary can work with existing corporate VPNs to provide heightened security when accessing privileged networks such as data centers and cloud VPCs.

> See also [Boundary vs. bastion hosts](/boundary/docs/overview/bastion-hosts) and [Boundary vs. privileged access management](/boundary/docs/overview/pam).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to also [Boundary vs. bastion hosts](/boundary/docs/overview/bastion-hosts) and [Boundary vs. privileged access management](/boundary/docs/overview/pam).
```
